# Simulations

The terms Monte Carlo simulation, Monte Carlo method and Monte Carlo experiment refers to a wide range of computational algorithms that utilize randomness in some way. Some problems, which contain a high degree of uncertainty (e.g. several stochastic factors or variables), might be impossible to solve accurately in a algebraic or numerical manner, but by using randomness, it is possible to obtain a good enough approximation, or to at least model the probabilities of the problems outcomes. A Monte Carlo simulation usually follow these steps: 
1. A domain of possible inputs is defined 
2. Random values are generated from a probability distribution (which depends on the domain of possible inputs) 
3. Computation or analysis is performed on the generated values 
4. A conclusion can be drawn


In our case I want to use Monte Carlo simulations to determine the probability that a stock increases or decreases in value. I will assume that a stock price gives daily returns that follow a normal distribution (a continuous probability distribution). The first thing which needs to be done is to estimate the expected level of return, and the volatility of the stock. I assume that I have access to an array of historical prices. The expected level of return can then be estimated by calculating the mean of the historical returns. The volatility can be estimated by calculating the standard deviation of the historical returns. From the expected level of return and from the volatility of the stock I can set up a probability distribution which attempts to model the behavior of the stock. The simulation itself is the act of selecting random numbers out of this probability distribution function. By sampling say ten values from the distribution, I get a sense of how the stock could potentially behave within the next ten days. HoIver, just one simulation won’t really give us an insight in the probability of the stock’s future returns. The likelihood of the stock following just one single random simulation is close to zero. The real insight in the stock and the possible outcomes of the future is gained when running thousands of simulations, by creating thousands of random price curves, which all are different, but at the same time share some of the key characteristics of the historical price data. These are so called random walks. It is believed that stocks follow a random walk, which implies that simulating a stock using random variables may work.
